# Overview

Annalise Cramer's Modern Applied Data Analysis Project, Spring 2025.

# Pre-requisites

This is based off a template for a data analysis project using R, Quarto, Github and a reference manager that can handle bibtex. Our recommendation for the reference manager is Zotero, with the Better BibTex plugin/extension. It is also assumed that you have a word processor installed (e.g. MS Word or [LibreOffice](https://www.libreoffice.org/)). You need that software stack to make use of this template. To produce pdf output, you need a TeX distribution installed. You can use tinytex, following [these instructions.](https://quarto.org/docs/output-formats/pdf-basics.html)


# Template structure and content

The template came with a folder structure and example files to illustrative the kinds of content you would place in the different folders. The following is a brief description of the contents. See the `readme` files in each folder for more details.


* The `assets` folder contains static assets like manually generated schematics/diagrams, bibtex files, csl style files, PDFs of references, and other such content. These assets are not code-based and are not generated by code. Basically add anything that's you want to be part of this repo but that doesn't fit into the other categories.

* All code goes into the `code` folder and subfolders. Currently, there are 3 sub-folders that do different parts of an analysis. You can re-organize such that it makes most sense for your project. The folders contain files that do some data cleaning and analysis to illustrate the overall setup and workflow. See the readme files in those folders for details.

* All data goes into the `data` folder and subfolders. Currently, there are 2 sub-folders that contain different versions of a simple example data set. You can re-organize such that it makes most sense for your project. 

* The `products` folder and its subfolders contains deliverables, such as manuscript/report, the supplement, slide decks, posters, Shiny web apps, etc. Those should generally be made with Quarto/R. As needed, other formats can be used. There is an example manuscript and and example slide deck.
  - The  `manuscript` subfolder contains a template for a report written as Quarto file. If you access this repository as part of [my Modern Applied Data Science course](https://andreashandel.github.io/MADAcourse/), the sections are guides for your project. If you found your way to this repository outside the course, you might only be interested in seeing how the file pulls in results and references and generates a word document as output, without paying attention to the detailed structure. There is also a sub-folder containing an example template for a supplementary material file.
  - The `slides` subfolder contains a basic example of slides made with Quarto.


* The `results` folder contains automatically/code generated output. This includes figures, tables saved as serialized R data (`.Rds`) files, computed values and other outputs. All content in these folders should be automatically generated by code. Manually generated results should be avoided as much as possible. If absolutely necessary, they go into the `assets` folder.


* There are multiple special files in the repo.
  * `readme.md`: this file contains instructions or details about the folder it
  is located in. You are reading the project-level `README.md` file right now. There is a `readme` in almost every folder.
  * `data-analysis-template.Rproj` is a file that tells RStudio that this is the main folder for a project. Rename if you want.
  * a few "hidden" files and folders (they start with a `.` and depending on how your OS is configured, you might not see them). Those are for R/RStudio and Git/GitHub and you can ignore them.



# Naming conventions

I follow these naming conventions for folders and files: 

* Somewhat descriptive and easy to understand names.
* Only lower-case letters (and numbers if needed). Words separated by a `-`. 

For instance there is a folder called `analysis-code` with a file called `exploratory-analysis-v2.qmd` in it. We don't use `_` or blank spaces for separators. We also don't use CamelCase, only lower-case. Exceptions are made for standard file endings, for instance R scripts end in `.R` (instead of `.r`).
